Student Portal Application
$username = "kamugundu"; 
$password = "2220133234"; 
$dbname = "student_portal";

Description:
The Student Portal Application is a web-based platform designed to facilitate various functionalities for students and administrators within an educational institution. It provides features such as managing attendance, courses, grades, and user accounts. The application aims to streamline administrative tasks and enhance communication between students and faculty members.

Features:

Admin Panel:
Login: Administrators can log in securely to access administrative functionalities.
Dashboard: Provides an overview of key statistics and information relevant to the administration.
User Management: Administrators can manage user accounts, including creating, editing, and deleting user profiles.
Course Management: Allows administrators to add, edit, and delete courses offered by the institution.
Attendance Management: Enables administrators to view and manage student attendance records.
Grade Management: Provides tools for entering, updating, and managing student grades.
Attendance:
View Attendance: Students can view their attendance records for each course.
Mark Attendance: Faculty members can mark attendance for students in their courses, recording both present and absent statuses.
Courses:
View Courses: Students can view a list of available courses along with relevant details such as course name, instructor, and schedule.
Enroll in Courses: Students can enroll in courses offered by the institution.
Drop Courses: Students can drop courses they are enrolled in, if necessary.
Grades:
View Grades: Students can view their grades for each course.
Grade Entry: Faculty members can enter grades for assignments, quizzes, midterms, and final exams.
Grade Calculation: The system calculates and displays cumulative grades based on weighted components (e.g., assignments, exams).
Users:
Student Accounts: Each student has a user account to access the portal and view personal information.
Faculty Accounts: Faculty members have accounts to manage courses, attendance, and grades.
Administrator Accounts: Admins have access to administrative features for managing users, courses, and system settings.
Functionality:

Admin Panel:
Authentication: Requires admin credentials to access administrative features.
CRUD Operations: Supports Create, Read, Update, and Delete operations for users, courses, attendance, and grades.
Data Validation: Ensures data integrity and prevents unauthorized access to sensitive information.
Attendance:
Marking Attendance: Faculty members can mark attendance for individual students or the entire class.
Attendance Reports: Generate reports to track student attendance over time, including statistics and trends.
Courses:
Course Creation: Admins can create new courses and assign instructors.
Course Enrollment: Students can enroll in available courses, and faculty members can assign students to their courses.
Course Management: Allows for updating course details, such as schedule changes or instructor assignments.
Grades:
Grade Entry: Faculty members can enter grades for various assessments and calculate final grades.
Grade Viewing: Students can view their grades for each course, along with feedback provided by instructors.
Users:
User Registration: New users (students, faculty, admins) can register for accounts with appropriate permissions.
Profile Management: Users can update their personal information, such as email, password, and contact details.
Role-Based Access Control: Different user roles (student, faculty, admin) have access to specific features and data within the portal.
Deployment:
The application can be deployed on a web server with support for PHP and MySQL. It requires a secure connection and proper authentication mechanisms to protect user data. Regular backups and security updates should be performed to ensure the integrity and availability of the system.

Technologies Used:

Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap
Backend: PHP
Database: MySQL
Web Server: Apache, Nginx
Security: HTTPS, Authentication, Input Validation, Data Encryption
Future Enhancements:

Integration with Learning Management Systems (LMS) for course content delivery.
Automated notifications for attendance, grades, and course updates.
Data analytics features for generating insights from attendance and grade data.
Mobile application support for on-the-go access to portal features.


